README.md, before:

# concourse-steampipe-resource
A [Concourse](https://concourse-ci.org/) resource for implementing a wide variety of triggers and data integrations via [Steampipe](https://steampipe.io/) and its expansive ecosystem of [plugins](https://hub.steampipe.io/plugins)

## Getting Started
```yaml
resource_types:
  - name: steampipe
    type: registry-image
    source:
      repository: ghcr.io/cludden/concourse-steampipe-resource
      username: ((ghcr.username))
      password: ((ghcr.password))

resources:
  # emits a version everytime the `foo` autoscaling group's launch configuration changes
  - name: aws-asg
    type: steampipe
    icon: aws
    check_every: 10m
    source:
      config: |
        connection "aws" {
          plugin  = "aws"
          profile = "target"
          regions = ["us-east-1"]
        }
      files:
        /home/steampipe/.aws/credentials: |
          [base]
          aws_access_key_id = ((aws.access_key))
          aws_secret_access_key = ((aws.secret_key))
          aws_session_token = ((aws.security_token))

          [target]
          duration_seconds = 900
          external_id = foo
          role_arn = arn:aws:iam::012345678910:role/foo
          role_session_name = concourse-steampipe-resource
          source_profile = base
      query: |
        select
          autoscaling_group_arn as arn,
          launch_configuration_name as launch_config
        from
          aws_ec2_autoscaling_group
        where
          name = 'foo';
      version_mapping: |
        # emit both an initial version, and a new version every time the launch configuration changes
        root = match {
          before.launch_config.or("unknown") != after.0.launch_config.or("unknown") => after.0
          _ => deleted()
        }

jobs:
  - name: handle-launch-config-change
    plan:
      # trigger when autoscaling group's launch configuration changes
      - get: aws-asg
        trigger: true

      - task: print
        config:
          platform: linux
          image_resource:
            type: registry-image
            source:
              repository: busybox
          inputs:
            - name: aws-asg
          run:
            path: /bin/bash
            args:
              - -c
              - |
                cat aws-asg/version.json
```

## Configuration

**Parameters:**
| Parameter | Type | Description | Required |
| :--- | :---: | :--- | :---: |
| config | `string` | Steampipe configuration | ✓ |
| debug | `bool` | enable debug logging | |
| files | `map[string]string` | map of additional files to write prior to invoking steampipe, can be used for configuring plugins that rely on canonical configuration files (e.g. `aws`) | |
| query | `string` | Steampipe query | ✓ |
| version_mapping | `string` | an optional [Bloblang mapping](https://www.benthos.dev/docs/guides/bloblang/about) that can be used to customize the versions emitted by the resource; the mapping receives as input a document with a `before` field that contains the previous version (if available), and an `after` field that contains the result of the query (note that this is typically an array of objects) | |

## Behavior

### `check`
Checks for new versions emitted via steampipe query

### `in`
Writes the JSON serialized version to the filesystem

**Files:**
- `version.json`

### `out`
Not implemented, will error if invoked via `put` step

## License
**UNLICENSED**

Commit message:

feat: adds support for archiving version history

README.md, after:

# concourse-steampipe-resource
A [Concourse](https://concourse-ci.org/) resource for implementing a wide variety of triggers and data integrations via [Steampipe](https://steampipe.io/) and its expansive ecosystem of [plugins](https://hub.steampipe.io/plugins)

## Getting Started
```yaml
resource_types:
  - name: steampipe
    type: registry-image
    source:
      repository: ghcr.io/cludden/concourse-steampipe-resource
      username: ((ghcr.username))
      password: ((ghcr.password))

resources:
  # emits a version everytime the `foo` autoscaling group's launch configuration changes
  - name: aws-asg
    type: steampipe
    icon: aws
    check_every: 10m
    source:
      config: |
        connection "aws" {
          plugin  = "aws"
          profile = "target"
          regions = ["us-east-1"]
        }
      files:
        /home/steampipe/.aws/credentials: |
          [base]
          aws_access_key_id = ((aws.access_key))
          aws_secret_access_key = ((aws.secret_key))
          aws_session_token = ((aws.security_token))

          [target]
          duration_seconds = 900
          external_id = foo
          role_arn = arn:aws:iam::012345678910:role/foo
          role_session_name = concourse-steampipe-resource
          source_profile = base
      query: |
        select
          autoscaling_group_arn as arn,
          launch_configuration_name as launch_config
        from
          aws_ec2_autoscaling_group
        where
          name = 'foo';
      version_mapping: |
        # emit both an initial version, and a new version every time the launch configuration changes
        root = match {
          before.launch_config.or("unknown") != after.0.launch_config.or("unknown") => after.0
          _ => deleted()
        }

jobs:
  - name: handle-launch-config-change
    plan:
      # trigger when autoscaling group's launch configuration changes
      - get: aws-asg
        trigger: true

      - task: print
        config:
          platform: linux
          image_resource:
            type: registry-image
            source:
              repository: busybox
          inputs:
            - name: aws-asg
          run:
            path: /bin/bash
            args:
              - -c
              - |
                cat aws-asg/version.json
```

## Configuration

**Parameters:**
| Parameter | Type | Description | Required |
| :--- | :---: | :--- | :---: |
| archive.type | `string` | archive type, one of `empty`, `s3`, defaults to `empty` | |
| archive.s3.bucket | `string` | s3 archive bucket name, requires s3 bucket versioning to be enabled | ✓ |
| archive.s3.key | `string` | s3 archive key name, should be unique to the resource | ✓ |
| archive.s3.region | `string` | s3 archive bucket region | ✓ |
| archive.s3.credentials.access_key | `string` | aws access key id | |
| archive.s3.credentials.secret_key | `string` | aws secret access key | |
| archive.s3.credentials.session_token | `string` | aws session token | |
| config | `string` | Steampipe configuration | ✓ |
| debug | `bool` | enable debug logging | |
| files | `map[string]string` | map of additional files to write prior to invoking steampipe, can be used for configuring plugins that rely on canonical configuration files (e.g. `aws`) | |
| query | `string` | Steampipe query | ✓ |
| version_mapping | `string` | an optional [Bloblang mapping](https://www.benthos.dev/docs/guides/bloblang/about) that can be used to customize the versions emitted by the resource; the mapping receives as input a document with a `before` field that contains the previous version (if available), and an `after` field that contains the result of the query (note that this is typically an array of objects) | |

## Behavior

### `check`
Checks for new versions emitted via steampipe query

### `in`
Writes the JSON serialized version to the filesystem

**Files:**
- `version.json`

### `out`
Not implemented, will error if invoked via `put` step

## Archiving
Concourse resources that leverage credentials in their resource config are at risk of losing version history if/when those credentials change/rotate. Due to the fact that versions emitted by this resource are synthetic, and in order to prevent orphaned versions in the event that credentials are rotated, this resource supports arhiving its version history to prevent history loss in these specific situations.

## License
**UNLICENSED**
